SPEAKER: You and I have lived
too long with this miracle
to properly be appreciative.
Freedom is a fragile thing,
and it's never more
than one generation away from extinction.
It is not ours by way of inheritance.
It must be fought for and defended
constantly by each generation...
for it comes only once to a people.
And those in world history
who have known freedom and then lost it
have never known it again.
For it will not be you speaking,
but the Spirit of your Father
speaking through you."
SPOUSE: Mike, breakfast.
Sorry, honey. No time. Love you guys.
Why can't you get my pancakes
to come out round?
This one looks like Australia.
They'll taste the same as any
other continent, sweetie, I promise.
-Hey, Dad, what about this car?
-How much have you saved?
Okay, well, if I sell my guitar,
I can probably get a
couple hundred extra bucks.
Yeah, it's too expensive.
-MIKE: Just keep looking, all right?
-All right.
-You're the best.
-(CHUCKLES)
-I love you guys. I'll see you at 6:00.
-SPOUSE: Love you.
(DOORBELL RINGS)
(CHILDREN LAUGHING)
Thanks.
Reading and theology today.
Pickup at 5:00.
Okay.
Hey, Jackson.
PARENT: Honey, I'll be home as soon
as work is over, okay?
SPOUSE: I think Shannon has a new puzzle
she wants to show you.
-Oh.
-Okay.
SHANNON: Hey, Jackson's here.
-Have you had breakfast yet?
-(CHUCKLES)
Someone at the restaurant called in sick.
I'm gonna have to pull a double tonight.
-(SPOUSE SIGHS) I'm sorry.
-It doesn't happen often.
Anyway, Jackson's babysitter
will pick him up tonight.
Do you remember Miss Meredith,
the church secretary?
Taylor, it's gonna be fine.
-Promise.
-Right.
Thanks.
This means more to us than you know.
PERSON: This coffee is wonderful.
PERSON 2: So, tell me
about your mission trip.
-Was it amazing?
-Oh, you would love China.
She's my native country,
but I don't think I can return.
Why?
The persecution of people of faith
is much worse now than when I left.
And not just of Christians
but of Uyghur Muslims and others.
Yeah, I heard they're trying
to detain millions in reeducation camps.
Now they're trying
to contextualize the Bible
to make it more culturally appropriate.
Freedom is fragile, Ayisha.
Did you see your family?
I traveled to the other side of the world.
They still won't speak to me
now that I'm a Christian.
My family lives down the street,
and my father won't talk to me.
I didn't think
that Christianity could be so...
Lonely?
Okay, this is North America.
Put it where it belongs on the map.
-(DOORBELL RINGS)
-(DOOR OPENS)
Sorry I'm late.
Jail ministry went long.
No worries.
Hey, Brandon.
-Hey, Mr. Hill.
-Oh, nice.
Hey, calc now, cars later.
-(WHISPERS) I like the truck.
-Yeah, me too.
Seventeen, buying my first car.
-I remember that.
-(CHUCKLES)
It's amazing you can get him
to think about anything else.
Yeah, I guess.
(CHILDREN CHUCKLE)
MR. HILL: How's Jackson doing?
He's coming out of his shell a little bit.
He relaxes around Shannon, so that's good.
Yeah. That is good.
How about Taylor?
She's been at the church for six months
and I just realized that I don't know
anything about her.
I guess that's my fault.
No, don't beat yourself up.
She keeps to herself.
Usually works nights so she can be
with Jackson during the day.
I didn't know that.
Still, it's my job to let people know
they have a home at St. Jude's.
All right, everyone.
Let's get our Bibles out and get ready
for some reading time.
MR. HILL: Yeah, guys.
Let's get to work.
-CHILD: Yeah!
-(CHUCKLES)
Today is... Drumroll, please.
We're talking about Noah.
Open your Bibles to Genesis 7.
MR. HILL: That's really good, Shannon.
Okay, let's talk about what we just heard.
-It's about to get really wet.
-(CHILDREN CHUCKLES)
Well, I think there's more
to this story than just rain.
How do you think people reacted to Noah
when he suddenly started
to build a big boat?
-They probably thought he was nuts.
-(KNOCKING)
MR. HILL: I think you may be right.
And that's the point.
Sometimes trusting God
means believing and doing things
that the world won't understand.
But we know that God honors
our obedience to him.
I'm Ms. Dowd with Social Services.
I'm here to review
your homeschooling environment.
Uh, no one called to let me know.
We've switched to unannounced visitations.
May I come in?
MS. DOWD: Good afternoon, children.
-Good afternoon.
-JACKSON: Good afternoon.
I am Ms. Dowd.
Since you don't have
a board-certified instructor,
I'm here to make sure
you aren't missing anything.
Is Ms. short for miss or missus?
(CHUCKLES)
It's not short for anything.
It's complete by itself.
She meant no disrespect.
She's just asking
if you're single or married
so she might address you properly.
I identify as self-partnered.
Might I ask what subject we're studying?
Uh, it's a combined unit
of reading and theology.
And you are?
Oh, I'm Reverend David Hill
from St. Jude's.
Our church helped found the co-op.
My interest is only with the parents
and with the children.
And the lesson plan is the Bible.
Well, for theology, I'd be hard-pressed
to find a more appropriate book.
Uh-huh.
Why don't you continue
as if I'm not even here?
DAVID: Okay.
You wanna pick up
where we left off, Shannon?
Sure.
You are to bring into the ark
two of all living creatures,
male and female,
to keep them alive with you.
Noah did everything
as God commanded him."
So the takeaway, their teachable moment
from the Noah myth, is obey God or die?
(CHUCKLES) I mean,
that's one way to look at it.
Uh-huh.
And the animals.
What exactly was the sin
that required their destruction?
(SIGHS)
These are my recommendations to the state.
-Escalation?
-That's not up to me.
(DOOR OPENS, CLOSES)
(ENGINE OFF)
I heard you pulling up.
Long day, huh?
Very. How was Jackson?
You know I love your boy
like he's my own,
but he needs help, Taylor.
Mommy.
It's okay, honey.
I'm here.
You came back.
Of course.
Mommy always comes back.
I was just at work.
What if you had to go to heaven
to be with Daddy?
Honey, that's not gonna happen.
(SIGHS)
PERSON: The country is just now
beginning to realize
that unity means winning under our terms.
Frankly,
everybody's tired of this stalemate.
The very idea of unity in this country
we now consider to be a myth.
Everybody's ready to move on
from this gridlock,
which is why my staff and I
have drafted new legislation.
Legislation that's gonna guarantee
that every child in this country
gets the kind of education
that they deserve.
Now mind you, we're gonna get this done
with or without the help of our friends
from across the aisle.
We know what the American people need.
They need progress,
and we're gonna give it to them.
Thank you.
Remember the visit we got
from Social Services the other day,
and we thought
it wasn't gonna be a big deal?
Yeah?
It is a big deal. (SIGHS)
(DAVID SIGHS) I know, Mike.
Phone's been ringing off the hook here.
-Yeah.
-Look, I'll come by later, okay?
We'll figure this out together.
Yeah, bye.
Oh, hey, you two.
I'm here to pick up those study guides
for seminary school,
but we can come back if this is a bad time.
No, no, no, no, no, please,
come on in. Have a seat.
-Uh, Meredith, can you find those?
-Yeah.
(SIGHS)
Martin, you're gonna be a great pastor.
What's the latest
on the homeschooling co-op?
Well, every family in the co-op
has just received a court summons.
-How is that possible?
-DAVID: I don't know.
I always thought the law gave parents
the freedom to homeschool as they see fit.
Growing up,
we always heard that in America
you could say whatever you please,
wear whatever you like
and worship whomever you will.
And that's still true, Ayisha.
This is just a misunderstanding.
It has to be.
Yes, the Supreme Court
said we can worship God
according to the dictates
of our own conscience.
It's how the court defines liberty.
How do you know so much
about the Constitution?
I studied for the civics test
to get my citizenship.
American history is a hobby for me now.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
The Constitution is an amazing document.
Ah. Yup, I suppose it is.
(AYISHA CHUCKLES)
Uh, hi, excuse me.
Are you selling your car?
Sure am. You buying?
Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Uh, well, maybe.
Um...
-I'm Brandon.
-Kayla.
So, like what you see?
Huh?
The car.
(CHUCKLES) Yes. Yeah.
Um, she's very beautiful.
-(CHUCKLES)
-It's beautiful.
-The car, I was talking about.
-Uh-huh.
-Right.
-This is just temporary right now.
-May I ask why you're selling it?
-I start college in the fall.
It's too expensive to have a car on campus.
Totally, college. Yeah.
Well, it'd be great
if I could get some pictures or...
Uh, yeah. Brandon.
-Kayla.
-Yeah.
-I already asked you.
-Yup. (CHUCKLES)
Sorry.
It all seems so extreme.
Dave, I want you to know that we will not
be cooperating at all, okay?
-Yeah. Not giving in is more like it.
-MIKE: Yeah.
I've spoken to the board.
We could certainly adjust the curriculum
to be more accommodating.
Don't you mean compromise the curriculum?
We already told them we're not conforming.
Religion has been removed
from our schools.
They're teaching kids
that they don't need God.
That faith is irrelevant
to their personal choices, Dave.
DAVID: I hear you.
I mean, these are some of the reasons
we started the co-op in the first place.
It's just...
I need you to understand
what you're getting yourself into
when you fight City Hall.
DAVID: The church really should've
moved off-campus 50 years ago...
Court costs, attorney fees.
Communities become divided.
A beacon of violence and controversy,
-and it has no place here...
-You're under arrest.
...at Hadley University campus.
It's a time-consuming, draining experience
that rarely ends
the way that you had hoped.
(SIGHS)
We understand. (CLEARS THROAT)
DAVID: Let me know
if there's anything else I can do.
Sorry I couldn't be of more help.
MS. DOWD:
During our observed instruction,
a number of deficiencies were noted.
These include: one,
lack of instructional effectiveness,
two, an environment inferior
to a group-learning experience,
three, the parents' inability
to cover all intellectual areas,
and four, the absence of
sufficient equipment,
especially in the sciences.
We are concerned that these children
may not acquire the essential skills
for good citizenship
and for their learning.
Has there been some attempt
at upgrading the curriculum?
There has, Your Honor.
But the parents in the St. Jude co-op
have refused to conform their curriculum
with district norms.
Is this true?
Yes, Your Honor,
but you need to understand--
A simple "yes" or "no"
would answer the question.
If you say "yes," that's a problem.
Does the district have a recommendation?
We recommend the children be returned
to an accredited learning program
immediately.
(CLEARS THROAT) Your Honor,
the district is complaining
about the lack of socialization.
But our children
are being denied the chance
to participate in any kind of
extracurricular activities--
State law is clear.
Homeschoolers have no right
to exploit extracurricular activities
at a school they don't see fit to attend.
It's an either/or situation, Mr. McKinnon.
The children in your co-op
cannot ask for dessert
without eating their dinner first.
DAVID: Their parents
pay taxes though, right?
Excuse me?
I mean, their property taxes.
That would cover the dessert
and the dinner too, correct?
-And you are?
-Reverend David Hill, Your Honor.
It was our church
that organized the co-op.
I remember you well, Pastor.
I do not pretend to be
an educational professional,
and I also note, however,
that neither are any of you.
This case could take years to settle,
and your children simply
can't wait that long.
In the interim,
I am going to sign an order
giving you ten days to either conform
to the district supervisor's recommendation
or enroll your children
in accredited schools.
And if we refuse?
(SIGHS)
Parents have the freedom
to raise their children
in line with their moral
and religious beliefs.
Your children, however,
enjoy the right to an education.
Your freedoms as parents do not
supersede your children's rights.
Your Honor, please--
Your beliefs do not exempt you
from the law, Mr. McKinnon.
Therefore, if your children do not show up
at school a week from Monday,
you will be fined $1,000 a day
for the first two weeks.
Thereafter, you will be charged
with contempt of court,
meaning you will be incarcerated.
During which time
the court will appoint temporary custody
of your children
to someone who will abide
by the court's decision.
Perhaps the good reverend
can explain further
the ramifications of contempt
in this courtroom.
So ordered.
-(THUNDER RUMBLING)
-AYISHA: Just tell me, Lord,
is my family's isolation the price
that you're asking me to pay?
Of course I'll abide by your will,
whatever that may be, but...
if there's any other way,
just please show me.
(SOBS) I'll do anything...
if I could just see my family again.
-(THUNDER RUMBLING)
-(RAIN FALLING)
(SIGHS)
(THUNDER RUMBLES)
Uh, excuse me, Pastor Hill?
Jude.
I told you, just call me David.
Oh... (CHUCKLES)... right.
Hey, you know what?
Maybe you can help me with this sermon.
Certainly, Pastor David.
Ah...
-Okay.
-What's the topic?
Topic is, "What does faith look like?"
It's so hard to nail it down.
(CHUCKLES) Yes, because it's relative.
In Nigeria, many of the people
that were ministered to
are only ever a moment away from death.
Death from hunger, disease, bad water.
Villagers walk to church, many for hours.
They don't say,
Oh, I have to go to church today.
They say, "Yes, it's Sunday.
I get to go to church."
In the backcountry,
people don't have money.
They bring carrots, eggs, milk.
It's all they have.
It's their widow's mite.
They're happy to give the Lord thanks
for one more week of life.
So when somebody
puts a gun on their heads and says,
Denounce Jesus and die,
they say, "Jesus, I'm coming home to you."
That's what faith looks like
for those who have nothing,
who are so close to death every day
and still have that fire and love for God.
You humble me, Jude.
Nah.
We all have our cross to bear.
America is a country
so blessed with prosperity,
it only makes sense
that much will be asked of her in return.
To whom much is given,
much will be required.
Much will be required.
(THUNDER RUMBLES)
I miss you, old friend.
(PHONE RINGING)
(SNIFFLES)
Uh, St. Jude's Church. (SIGHS)
Yeah, this is he.
Uh, okay.
Wait, what?
Who is this again?
PARENT: I don't have the money
to pay for those kinds of fines.
None of us do.
Well, that's it. We're gonna enroll
our kids into Oakwood on Monday.
Look at this.
You know the Andersons, right?
Okay, all their kids go to Oakwood.
Matty Anderson brought that
home from school.
This is an advertisement
for birth control.
Yeah.
They passed it out in class.
Matty's in the second grade.
He's seven.
How long till they bring that here?
We're not subjecting Shannon to that
and none of you should have to.
DAVID: No, you shouldn't...
which is why I think we should fight this.
We need to.
With all due respect, Dave,
you're not the one on the hook for fines.
Not to mention,
the contempt of court.
The church will stand with you on this.
We'll organize a plan
and help with any court costs
and attorney fees if need be.
Dave, the church doesn't have
those kinds of funds.
We have eight days to figure it out.
And I...
I will personally cover the cost
of any fines if we have to.
David, unless you won the lottery,
there's no way you'll
be able to pay for all this.
Unless you're betting you won't have to.
I have faith that I won't have to.
And if I do, I'll deal with it then.
This is important.
Why the change of heart?
(CHUCKLES)
An old friend reminded me
that our freedoms came with a price.
China banned homeschooling
because homeschool students are not
exposed to state-sponsored indoctrination.
Mmm.
If any parent chooses to homeschool,
they must do so underground
and at great risk.
Once a freedom is taken away,
it is very difficult to get it back.
DAVID: Exactly.
And to that end,
I think we might have a little help.
Earlier, I got a phone call from
Daryl Smith, a congressman from Texas.
Congressman?
Mr. Smith told me
Congress is meeting next week,
and they're having hearings on education.
They asked if any of us would go
to Washington and describe our situation.
Washington, DC?
Washington, DC.
-You okay?
-Yeah.
Hey, son, make sure to help Grandma.
It's only gonna be a couple nights,
I promise.
Yeah, sure.
Hey, Dad, I know with everything going on,
money might be tight,
especially if you guys have to pay fines.
Everything's gonna be fine.
We're gonna work this out.
What's this?
Well, just in case,
I want you to take the money for the car.
It's not gonna kill me
to ride a bike a little while longer.
You're gonna make me cry now, okay? No.
Me and your mother
are gonna work this thing out, I promise.
But you know,
I want you to know something, okay?
I couldn't be any more proud
than I am of you right now, son.
(CHUCKLES)
-I love you, man.
-Yeah, I love you.
All right, don't cry. Don't cry.
Be good for Grandma, do whatever she says,
and no arguing over bedtime, okay?
Mom, really?
I got this.
You too big to give your mom a hug?
MIKE: You guys heard from Taylor?
We need to get going.
-(CAR APPROACHES)
-There she is.
(ENGINE OFF)
I hope I haven't made us late.
What's wrong, honey?
Is it Jackson?
He's with Miss Meredith.
It's worth it, right?
-Our kids?
-Of course it is.
-Taylor, what's the matter?
-We should go. We can't miss our plane.
DAVID: I really appreciate you
coming along and keeping me company.
Did you know that two presidents
kept alligators at the White House?
It's just sometimes
I feel a little out of place
being the only non-parent in the group.
No way.
I know, it's silly, but--
There's a statue of Darth Vader's head
on top of the National Cathedral.
-What?
Oh, thanks for letting me come along.
It means a lot to me.
Ah, don't mention it.
Hey, what do you think of this car?
That's freedom right there.
It's a chance to hang
with people my own age.
What car?
I see some girl, and...
Oh, wait, there it is.
Are those the wheels?
You're so funny. Yeah.
What do you know?
You're just a fifth-grader.
I know Mom and Dad will be mad
if you waste your money on the wrong car.
Okay, what? It's a great car.
(KAYLA CHUCKLES)
All in one piece. Okay, got it.
(ENGINE OFF)
Thanks for this.
I know you're gonna be very happy
with the car.
No, um, thank you.
I can finally give the bike to my sister
and travel in style.
So, um, can I, uh, ask you a question?
Okay.
(CHUCKLES) I just gotta be real with you.
Um, I mean, this is my first car and all.
I look a little older than my age.
-Um...
-(CHUCKLES)
You know, it's a big step of my life
and, well, I was just kinda wondering--
If it's a good car?
Yeah.
It's actually an awesome car.
-(SIGHS)
-I'd take her with me if I could.
That's great.
Yeah, that's, um, really good to know.
Well, so I guess you'll
be leaving for State in the fall.
Yeah, my last little hurrah
before I have to start adulting.
Yeah. Well, I was just thinking--
-Hey, sorry, um, this is my mom.
-(PHONE VIBRATING)
-I kinda have to take it.
-Yeah, yeah, of course.
Hey, Mom.
Um, yeah, I'm here with the boy
who bought my car.
It's fine. I can fend for myself.
Yeah, I'll just throw something
in the microwave, I guess.
(ENGINE STARTS)
Um, yeah. Okay, Mom. Got it.
(LINE RINGING)
(PHONE BEEPS)
Hi, Baba, it's me.
I just wanted to call to tell you
that I love you and I miss you.
I really wish that you would talk to me.
(AYISHA SIGHS)
Please call me.
DAVID: It's still early.
You guys wanna grab a bite?
How about touring the city?
Uh, guys, I don't think
Taylor's gonna wanna do any sightseeing.
On the flight over here, she told us
that she was released from her job.
Why?
Guess she's been taking too much time off,
and the trip to DC certainly didn't help.
Wow.
Mike, you, uh--
You mind checking us in?
-I'm gonna go see if she needs anything.
-Sure.
Martin, you always wanted
to be a pastor.
Come on, this is what it looks like.
Okay.
Taylor, I'm so sorry
to hear about your job.
Thanks, but I can get another one.
This one just worked 'cause I could be
with Jackson during the day.
Okay.
(SIGHS)
Is there something else?
I'm fine.
Really, you guys don't have
to sit here and hold my hand.
I'm your pastor, Taylor.
We're here for you.
You guys, it's...
Look, if you don't wanna talk about it,
that's okay.
But sometimes it's better if you do.
MARTIN: Everyone is feeling
the stress, I think.
Shannon said last night she doesn't
want her parents going to jail.
DAVID: Children shouldn't have
to worry about things like that.
I know.
She even asked to sleep in our bed.
I mean, she hasn't done that in years.
Jackson hasn't slept without me
in over a year.
My husband left for
an Air Force training mission,
and that was the last time we saw him.
Equipment malfunction.
But I've worked for the government
long enough to read between the lines.
How he died isn't important anyway,
because I know why he did.
It's just...
Jackson isn't dealing with it
very well, you know?
We moved to Hope Springs
in the fall for a fresh start.
It's where my mom grew up.
DAVID: I'm so sorry, Taylor.
I didn't know.
But you guys, the church, the co-op,
you've all been lifesavers.
I don't know what my son and I
would do without you.
Jackson wouldn't last ten minutes
in a public school.
They'd classify him as "special education"
and label him "emotionally disturbed."
They'd give him
an individual education plan
which might not even challenge him at all,
until eventually Jackson becomes
the label the state pins on him,
and why his father died,
I feel like, would all be for nothing.
Why?
Defending our freedoms.
I feel like such a fool.
I had no idea.
(SIGHS) I'm ashamed to admit it,
but I assumed that she was divorced.
But would it have mattered
if she was?
We failed her, Mike,
as Christians,
as just decent human beings.
(SIGHS)
(VACUUM WHIRRING)
(VACUUM SWITCHES OFF)
(PHONE DINGS)
Hey.
-(GRUNTS)
-What's wrong with you?
(CHUCKLES) Nothing. I got a date.
DAVID: "Fourscore and seven years ago,
our fathers brought forth
on this continent a new nation,
conceived in liberty
and dedicated to the proposition
that all men are created equal.
Now we are engaged in a great civil war,
testing whether that nation, or any nation
so conceived and so dedicated
can long endure.
It is for us, the living rather,
to be dedicated here
to the unfinished work
which they have fought here.
But from these honored dead,
we take increased devotion
to that cause for which they gave
the last full measure of devotion.
That we here highly resolve
that these dead
shall not have died in vain,
that this nation under God
shall have a new birth of freedom,
and that government of the people,
by the people, for the people,
shall not perish from the Earth."
KAYLA: I guess I just assumed
that you went to Oakwood.
(BRANDON CHUCKLES) No.
No, my sister and I have been
homeschooled since the start.
KAYLA: What's that like?
Well, the lunches are better,
don't need a hall pass
to go to the bathroom,
uh, teachers don't have favorites.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
No, there's no pressure
to be popular, I guess.
No bullies, no school lockdowns.
But I don't know, I guess the best part
is I just get to be myself, you know?
My thoughts are my own,
not what I memorized.
Yeah, I learn stuff
and make it matter to me.
Wow.
I mean, it's not all that.
I don't get to do, you know, this.
(CHUCKLES) No school sports,
no homecoming, no prom.
I really don't get to meet a lot of people
outside church, so, you know...
You're not really missing much.
Nobody goes to the homecoming dances,
'cause everyone thinks they're lame.
Still, uh, prom sounds cool.
Get to wear a tux and all.
(CHUCKLES)
So what about you?
What are your plans after college?
Pre-law.
Okay.
It's kind of a family tradition.
I've been holding mock trials
with my mom since I was a kid.
Really?
Your Honor, the plaintiff petitions the
court for an increase in weekly allowance
and suspended bedtime
during the summer months.
And how'd that work out?
-(CHUCKLES) You win some, you lose some.
-Mmm. (CHUCKLES)
No, but my mom's fair.
She knows her stuff.
Speaking of which, I should probably go.
It's getting late,
and my mom tends to worry.
Yeah.
Um, can I give you a ride?
Sure.
MARTIN: The pillars represent
the states and territories
that sent men and women
to serve under the US flag
during World War Il.
DAVID: See how
they're linked with that rope?
It symbolizes the country's unified effort.
MARTIN: "The Freedom Wall
bears a field of 4,000 golden stars,
each of which stands for
100 American military deaths in the war."
Here we mark the price of freedom.
KAYLA: You didn't have
to walk me to the door.
BRANDON: No, it's cool.
I, um...
I wanted to.
-Such a gentleman.
-(CHUCKLES)
And thank you
for bringing that earring back.
My mother would've killed me.
Belonged to my grandmother.
Oh, man.
Oh, my grandma. She's staying with us
while my parents are out of town.
I totally forgot.
I'm so sorry. I really gotta go. I...
I mean, you know,
she's not babysitting me or anything.
I'm way old enough for that.
It's my sister.
Um, I will see you later. (CHUCKLES)
I will call you. Yeah.
MARTIN: Maybe I shouldn't,
but I feel confident.
(DAVID SIGHS) I need to go over
these homeschool statistics.
So much to learn.
The Washington Monument
is 55 feet at the base and 555 feet high.
At the very top, there's an aluminum cap
where there's an inscription, "Laus Deo."
Two words, seven letters, overlooking
the most powerful city in the world.
It means, "Praise be to God."
-I thought maybe you needed to hear that.
-(SIGHS)
(PHONE VIBRATING)
I, uh...
I need to take this.
I'll see you at the hotel.
Thank you, Martin.
Hello?
Oh, hi.
Jimmy's Pizza?
Uh, no, but I'm sure I can find it.
Reverend Hill.
Ah, Congressman Smith.
Hey, glad to see you made it
safe and sound.
-(CHUCKLES)
-Thanks for coming.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jimmy.
I just wanna make sure you understand
what you're fighting here.
I was able to do some fact-finding
on St. Jude's co-op before I left home...
Mm-hmm.
...and I think the commission's
gonna be pleased
on how well our students do
on standardized tests.
Mmm. Yeah, well, right now
there's an effort under way
demanding universal
educational guidelines.
Sounds reasonable.
Oh, it's meant to.
But make no mistake,
those guidelines are increasingly at odds
with the Christian worldview.
There won't be any opt-out
for homeschoolers.
Homeschooling
is like a weed to these folks,
and they just wanna yank it out.
But why?
Why indeed?
In the Common Core agenda--
Excuse me, "curriculum" --
everything's relative.
And I mean everything
from kindergarten on.
Even basic facts are seen as subjective.
Common Core deliberately
creates the illusion
there's no such thing as truth.
Because if truth doesn't exist,
then there's no moral absolutes.
And by middle school,
there's a discernible political agenda
behind the classroom reading lessons.
Ask your average millennial
about our Founding Fathers
and they'll tell you that they were
all a bunch of old and rich
oppressive slave owners.
That perspective came from somewhere.
But weren't they?
Most of them were just kids.
Edward Rutledge and Thomas Lynch,
both were just 26 years old
when they signed
the Declaration of Independence.
And Thomas Jefferson was the ripe old age
of 33 when he helped write it.
And as far as owning slaves,
absolutely, some did,
but many did not.
But they all get tarred
with the same brush.
But why? To what end?
If you discredit them,
then you discredit what they gave us.
Instead of the people having
their natural rights derived from God,
we can convince the students
that we only have those rights
which the government allows us,
replacing our liberties with control.
Gotta admit the pizza
isn't sitting well with me.
It's me. I'm heavy. (LAUGHS)
It's a lot to digest, man.
Jimmy, this was fantastic as usual.
Thank you so much.
No, no. Your money's no good here.
It's no good here.
Thank you, Congressman Smith,
for everything you're trying to do for us.
Absolutely.
And just so you know,
I think we caught a break for tomorrow.
Oh, yeah? How?
Congressman Jason Abercrombie
is sitting chair on the committee.
-Is he on our side?
-He's smart and he is fair.
That's as much as we can ask for.
It'll have to do. (SIGHS)
Believe me, it could've gone a lot worse.
(POP COUNTRY SONG PLAYING)
♪ Third grade ♪
♪ I drew my dreams on a blank page ♪
♪ My own silver screen
Painted sun, never rain ♪
♪ And love without pain ♪
♪ It's funny ♪
♪ That life I designed never played out ♪
♪ Like I had in mind ♪
♪ Had some highs hit the ground ♪
♪ Some ups that went down ♪
♪ But one thing that I figured out ♪
♪ Joy comes, tears fall ♪
♪ I'm learning there is beauty in it all ♪
♪ It's not hard to find it ♪
♪ You just have to look ♪
♪ Ohh ♪
♪ God is good ♪
(PHONE DINGS)
-Kayla, have you found Grammy's earring?
-Uh-huh.
Brandon brought it to me.
Who's Brandon?
(CHATTERING, CHUCKLING)
I want this over quickly, Denise.
There's real work to be done.
DENISE: Baby steps, Murray.
We win incrementally
and stay on the right side of history.
I know we can count on you.
-Yeah, I'm a team player.
-Good.
-Morning, Denise.
-Smith.
Shame about Abercrombie.
So sudden.
Heart attack?
He was a dinosaur.
Time for the old centrist
to be put out to pasture.
Well, who's sitting chair in his place?
Lots of surprises for you today, Smith.
Daryl.
My deepest condolences, sir.
Jason. Jason was a friend to us all.
I'm sure his family
will be pleased to hear.
Thoughts and prayers, sir.
Thoughts and prayers.
I would like to call this hearing
of the House Subcommittee
on elementary and secondary
education to order.
At this time, I wish to thank both members
and their staff for their participation.
Would the first witness
state her name and position?
Donna Chesney,
United States Secretary of Education.
Ms. Chesney, we're in receipt
of your report.
Would you care to summarize your findings
on the practice generally known
as homeschooling?
Yes, Mr. Chairman.
Our department considers homeschooling
an unusual, unnecessary
and borderline antisocial practice.
And your further recommendations are?
It's in the state's opinion,
we should be following Europe's lead.
A number of European countries
have already outlawed homeschooling.
Germany, Spain, the Netherlands,
and that's just to name a few.
And in places where it is allowed,
like Sweden,
it's tightly regulated
and closely monitored.
Thank you for your expert testimony.
-Did you get any sleep?
-None. You?
-(DOOR OPENS)
-Same.
Good morning. Daryl Smith.
Mrs. Hays.
-Mrs. McKinnon.
-Hi.
-Mike McKinnon.
-Yes, sir.
Reverend, I trust that Jimmy's Pizza
didn't give you nightmares.
That's not what kept me up
last night.
I can't thank you all enough
for making the trip,
especially since I know
how difficult things are for you at home.
We felt that we didn't have much
of a choice really.
That's just it. You did.
As believers, we've abandoned
the mountain of politics for far too long.
We've decided that it's just
too dangerous of an arena
for Christians to be walking into.
So we just left it to anyone
who wanted to go there
for their own selfish and worldly reasons,
and hope that everything
will work out fine.
Only it didn't,
and now we're in a mess.
What's happening in there?
They're still running testimony
for the other side.
They should be finished
in about a half hour,
and then it's your turn.
If God is for us,
who can be against us?
Well, around here,
just about everyone else.
Maybe I've been in
Washington, DC too long.
You guys relax.
Come and get you later, okay?
Thank you.
What color corsage do I get?
Depends on what color dress
she's wearing.
Well, how am I supposed to know that?
It's kind of like a coral.
-Coral?
-I got you.
Everything okay with your grandmother?
Huh? Oh, yeah.
(CHUCKLES)
Um, I'm so sorry about that.
My parents are in Washington.
As in DC?
Yeah, they're actually testifying
at a congressional subcommittee
on homeschooling.
Wow.
I bet they must be pumped.
No, no, no, not really.
They actually had to go
because a judge here in town
threatened to fine them
if they didn't send us to public school.
-Does that look good with coral?
-Yes.
A judge in Hope Springs?
Which one?
I don't know, some, uh--
some family judge.
Hey, I gotta run.
(CHUCKLES)
-Okay. I'll call you later.
-(LINE BEEPS)
(MUTTERING)
Strange place to cram for a test,
Reverend.
Yeah, this is not really my thing.
I'm afraid I'm gonna make things worse
for everyone out there.
Matthew 10:19,
Do not worry about what you will say.
At that time,
you will be given what to say."
For it will not be you speaking,
but the Spirit of your Father
speaking through you."
There's been a development.
We have a new chairman, a Robert Benson.
I'm guessing he's not as friendly
as Abercrombie.
Hardly.
The direction out there, the narrative,
is going to change considerably.
They are going to insist
that religious beliefs
are anti-rational,
anti-science and antisocial.
Show them that religious beliefs
are supported through rational thought,
with a basis on the US law and tradition.
I think I have a card for that.
And also, I need you
to make them understand
that if they insist
on trampling believers' rights,
well, sir, they are in for a fight.
You got this.
SMITH: Mr. Willoughby,
you have a strong attachment to the idea
of developing a nationalized curriculum,
do you not?
Yes, because it's in the best interest
of our children.
I'm just concerned
that we're working awfully hard here
to violate one of our own existing laws,
the Elementary and Secondary
Education Act of 1965,
which prevents us
from nationalizing any school curriculum.
I mean, we passed a law
that said we wouldn't do that.
We've achieved a way
to avoid violating the spirit of that law
with Common Core.
We merely propose the guidelines.
The states adopt the measures
on their own.
On their own, without any pressure
from the government?
None whatsoever.
SMITH: Mr. Willoughby, if you succeed
in gaining approval for your curriculum,
would parents be able to opt out
or be allowed to opt out of their program?
I'd encourage the states to require
full participation without exception.
What gives them the right to do that?
Well, once we determine
what every child needs to know,
it becomes imperative
that every child know it.
After all,
the children belong to all of us.
SMITH: Interesting perspective.
There are parents waiting in the wings,
waiting to testify that their children,
in fact, belong to them...
and not to all of us.
But thank you for your candor.
They're ready for you.
Okay, come on.
BENSON: Would the witnesses state
their names for the record?
MIKE: Yes, sir.
Michael and Rebecca McKinnon.
Taylor Hays, Your Honor.
This is not a courtroom, Ms. Hays,
and I most certainly am not a judge.
Please refer to me as Mr. Chairman.
And I'm David Hill.
Reverend David Hill.
Yes, sir. The preacher.
We'd like to thank the subcommittee
for having us.
Um, well, now that who we all are
has been established.
Mr. Chairman, my husband
and I have our two children
in the St. Jude homeschooling co-op,
and they continue to perform better
on standardized testing
than their public
and private school peers.
Giving us a good reason to believe
that we're doing something right.
Well, I should begin by letting you know
that we've had a series of experts
pass through here,
all of them assuring us
that we have nothing to fear
from a standardized education.
With all due respect,
in this particular case,
we believe that the experts are wrong.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Let me give you an example.
So in our district, they teach
a revisionist version of history,
which is both progressive
and anti-faith in equal measure.
And so if our children are forced
onto its Common Core track,
they will never learn
about the faith-based underpinnings
of the US Constitution
or its Bill of Rights.
They'll never hear
about George Washington's plea
for the blessing of almighty God
at his inauguration.
MIKE: They're not taught anything
that reflects positively
on America's Christian heritage,
despite the fact that America's history
and its faith traditions
are so deeply intertwined.
Well, that is not what our experts
have testified to here today.
What about Thanksgiving?
-Excuse me?
-DAVID: Thanksgiving.
You know, pilgrims, turkeys,
Native Americans.
-I'm familiar with the holiday.
-DAVID: Well, sure you are.
From kindergarten onward,
every child learns about it.
But what do they learn?
This is the NEA's own statement
regarding Thanksgiving.
The National Education Association
believes that Thanksgiving
is the recognition of unity
and the rich American diversity
that was embodied
in the settlement of America."
Well, that sounds completely reasonable.
Well, that would've come as a big surprise
to the pilgrims that were actually there.
They came together
to thank God for the bountiful harvest.
Now, the Native Americans
were fellow guests. Yes, absolutely.
But God was the reason for the feast.
And to indicate that the purpose
of the first Thanksgiving
was primarily a multicultural event
is a fabrication.
And if we don't teach
the Common Core myth,
then Social Services and a--
a judge in Hope Springs
has decided that we risk
going to jail for contempt.
It's your babysitter.
She said it's urgent.
Thank you.
Hello, Meredith?
Taylor, Jackson's not hurt.
It's just he's been crying all day.
And now he's refusing to eat.
I thought maybe you could talk to him.
Of course. Can you put him
on the phone, please?
It's your mama, Jackson.
Mommy?
Hi, honey. Are you having a bad day?
Are you coming back?
Yes, sweetheart. Mommy always comes back.
I'll be home as soon as I can.
Hey, did you know
that this is where the president lives?
Come back. Don't go to heaven.
Stay with me.
Mommy always comes back.
You'll feel better if you eat your lunch.
Please eat something, honey.
Love you, sweetheart.
MEREDITH: Jackson,
let's go get something to eat, okay?
(LINE BEEPS)
2:00 p.m.?
Where is Ayisha Moradi?
-Relation to the patient?
-I'm her father.
(PHONE HOOK CLICKS)
She'll be in 302.
You know that, don't you?
That I love you?
AYISHA: Yes, Baba.
Ayisha!
He's the one God who has not begotten.
I command you to say it.
Now!
AYISHA: Baba! No, Baba!
No, no!
I'm sorry.
BENSON: My concern is that our children
will not live up to their full potential
by being subject
to a faith-based education
which is anti-rational and anti-science.
May I say something?
That's why you're here, Ms. Hays.
Belief in the Bible isn't anti-science.
What is your occupation?
It says here you're an assistant manager
in a restaurant.
Recently unemployed.
What else do your notes say?
Well, there doesn't really appear
to be too much here.
TAYLOR:
Let me fill in the blanks for you.
I'm a widow.
After my husband passed away,
I took a less demanding job
to spend more time with our son.
You have my condolences.
But before he died,
I completed an advanced degree
in aerospace engineering
and worked as a systems engineer
in Houston
at the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration.
NASA.
NASA has a long history
with men and women of faith.
Do you know what the first
food and beverage
ever consumed on the surface
of the moon was?
I have no idea. Tang, I suppose.
(CHUCKLES)
Consecrated bread and wine.
It happened when astronaut Buzz Aldrin
took Holy Communion
just after setting down the lunar module
in the Sea of Tranquility.
You see, Aldrin was an elder
at Webster Presbyterian Church,
and he got special permission
to take the bread and wine with him
and give himself communion.
A few months earlier on Christmas Eve,
the crew of Apollo 8
read from the Book of Genesis
while they orbited the moon.
An Israeli astronaut, Ilan Ramon,
recited the Jewish Shabbat kiddush,
and Russian cosmonaut, Sergey Ryzhikov--
What is your point, Ms. Hays?
There's a common misconception
of homeschool parents,
particularly those of faith,
that we're some kind of flat-earthers.
My seven-year-old
knows that the Earth is round
and that the sunrise is an illusion
caused by the Earth's rotation.
And when tested in physics or chemistry
about the rate of acceleration
of a falling object
or the atomic mass of cesium,
acceptable answers do not include, "Jesus"
or, "Whatever God wants it to be."
And lastly,
my husband was a United States
Air Force pilot
who fought for our freedoms
and died in service to this country.
So if it's all the same to you,
I would prefer you call me Mrs. Hays
out of respect of my marriage
and to my husband's memory.
(ATTENDEES MURMURING)
(PANEL MURMURING)
Your nation thanks your husband
for his service
and you and your family
for your sacrifice.
I'm afraid that's all the time
we have here today.
This hearing is now adjourned
till tomorrow morning.
(DOOR CLOSES)
I don't know what
you're talking about.
No.
No, I just got home.
Hold on.
The parents of St. Jude co-op are only
asking Social Services and Judge Neely
to allow us to supervise
the education of our children
as best as we know how.
And they continue to perform higher
on standardized tests
than their public
and private school peers.
I'll call you back.
-Giving us a good reason to believe...
-Mom?
...we're doing something right.
She has no bone fractures,
no internal injuries or bleeding.
Then why won't she wake up?
Head trauma.
But she's young and in good health.
I'm hopeful she'll recover
without any serious repercussions.
Hopeful?
Are you a religious man, Mr. Moradi?
Yes, of course.
Why do you ask?
I thought you might be comforted
in prayer.
Prayer?
It can't hurt.
May I be excused?
-You have something to say, say it.
-Okay.
It's kind of weird to find out
that your mom is the one
who's sending your friend's parents
to jail.
You know I don't send people to jail.
They put themselves in jail
by refusing to follow the law.
And since when do you
have homeschooled friends?
-Since when is homeschooling illegal?
-Watch your tone.
The state has set universal standards
for education.
Homeschoolers can't pick and choose
the ones that they wanna follow.
But don't they have to take the same tests
that we do?
Who cares what road they take
if we all end up in the same place?
That's just the point.
We don't end up in the same place,
because the roads that they take
are paved with privilege.
Why does every conversation
have to go back to--
Homeschooling is separatist,
elitist and racist, Kayla.
And I didn't raise you
to challenge me this way in my own home.
Actually, you kind of did.
TAYLOR: So where did Martin run off to?
He's off on a fact-finding mission
with some tourists that he met.
TAYLOR: Oh, bless his heart.
He's so happy to be here.
(SIGHS)
I was too, but I'm not so sure now.
I just have no idea
how we're doing in there.
Have we heard anything
from Congressman Smith?
Not yet.
We should call the kids.
All right, excuse us.
-Let's go in the back.
-Okay.
-(PHONE CHIMES)
-Ah.
Food's here.
-I'm gonna run down and get it.
-Thanks.
Hey, maybe it'll help to know
that we're here for you.
You have a family in St. Jude's.
(DENISE CHUCKLES) Where did Smith
dig up a dead soldier's wife?
Benson needs to vet
the witness list better.
And anyone buying the holy-roller story
that she used to work at NASA?
Hey, someone has to empty out
the garbage cans, am I right?
How much longer
do we have to suffer through this?
I got better places to be.
-Uh, no, you can keep it.
-Thank you.
DENISE: Reverend Hill,
how do you answer the comment
by former US commission on civil rights,
Chairman Martin Castro, and here I quote,
The phrases
religious liberty and religious freedom
will stand for nothing except hypocrisy,
as long as they remain code words
for discrimination, intolerance, racism,
sexism, homophobia, Islamophobia
or any form of intolerance"?
I think it says more about the bias
of the former civil rights chairman
than it does about
the supposed biases of believers.
But surely you recognize how offensively
patriarchal and sexist the Bible is.
Is that a legitimate question,
or is that just your chance
at a sound bite?
(ATTENDEES CHUCKLING)
-(GAVEL BANGS)
-Quiet.
Excuse me?
I--
Considering the time when it was written,
the Bible is one of the most
pro-feminist documents in history.
In an era where women were treated
as property to be bought and sold...
Paul ordered women to cover up their hair,
to wear a veil in the assembly.
Do you think I need
to wear a veil for you?
Single women in the Roman Empire
were required by law to unveil their hair
for the visual pleasure of men.
It would be like today if we forced
a young woman to dress immodestly
and it was totally exploitative.
To get around that,
you either had to be married or widowed.
So when Paul told women
to wear a veil in the assembly,
he was adding to the dignity of women,
basically saying, "You are every bit
as good as a married woman or a widow
and you don't have to put yourself
on display, at least not in here."
(FOOTSTEPS)
Mom?
I'd like to make an argument.
I'm already late.
It's important.
(SIGHS) Five minutes.
In the matter of
The State v. the St. Jude's
Homeschooling Cooperative--
That case has been decided.
Is the court's decision
not subject to appeal?
-Grounds?
-New evidence, conflicting evidence.
-Four minutes.
-Point of clarification.
How is homeschooling socially selfish
and misaligned
with liberal progressive values?
Because it ignores
the needs of the community at large.
We're divided enough as it is, Kayla.
We shouldn't be teaching our children
to be suspicious of public institutions
and civic obligations.
What if Christian homeschoolers
are more likely to donate to charities
or be first in line
to volunteer in Third World countries?
There's no evidence of that.
-Mom, they're literally Christians.
-(SIGHS)
Who do you think does most
of the donating and volunteering?
You've always told me that
there's value in dissent
and challenging prevailing norms.
Isn't that the foundation
for liberal activism?
What about institutional diversity?
Look, all I'm saying is,
shouldn't there be options for education,
choices for the individual,
instead of lumping everyone together
in a single one-size-fits-all model?
How is that diversity?
The public school system
is there for us as a society.
The people are not there for it.
As soon as it stops working for the kids,
parents are obligated to leave.
MIKE: The parents
of the homeschooling co-op
take seriously
our duty to instruct our children,
to teach them, to educate them,
to decide what is best for them.
It's a natural extension of our beliefs.
Beliefs that I consider
to be divisive and intolerant.
Only because you label intolerant
anyone who you don't agree with,
and you label divisive
as anyone who doesn't agree with you.
The gospels describe Jesus
as teaching his followers
to forgive each other,
to love their enemies,
show generosity to those in need
and embrace those
outside their ethnic circles.
Would you call that divisive?
Christ commanded his followers
to advance his message
with the irresistible force of love
and the power of truth.
Would you call that intolerant?
No one has a monopoly on the truth,
Mr. Hill. Not even you.
No. But if God exists,
then he has the monopoly on it
and we hold that he does exist
and has spoken.
Your truth, sir, not mine.
DAVID: Except that's not the way
that truth works.
Truth is truth
for everyone and everywhere.
Even if over time, it loses its popularity
or becomes politically incorrect.
That's what the parents
of these children understand.
That in a society where
suddenly everything is relative,
truth is absolute,
a transcendent thing not of this world.
Something that they have
no power to change.
America was founded on these principles,
and if we just throw them away--
I think we're done here.
I would like to thank the witnesses
for their input.
They're free to go.
This hearing is now adjourned
for one hour.
After which,
we will vote on this issue.
DAVID: Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Chairman, you haven't ruled
on our situation.
I'm sorry, sir, that you have
misunderstood the purpose of this hearing.
Thank you.
Wait, what does he mean
"The purpose of this hearing"?
I'm not sure.
I mean, is any of this going to matter?
It has to.
I mean, even when it turns out
we're still under a court order
and facing all kinds of fines
when we get home?
Are you sure?
Yeah.
I see.
Okay.
Have a safe flight.
Is Mommy coming home?
Mommy's coming home.
(SIGHS)
(PHONE DINGS)
BENSON: I'm impressed, Mr. Hill.
You really should have had yourself
a career in politics.
Thanks.
I'll pass.
Do you really think anything
you said in there
is gonna have any effect on what we do?
You see, we do these things
because we're supposed to,
because supposedly somebody's watching.
But other than a few C-SPAN junkies,
is anybody really paying attention?
Don't you get it?
We've already decided
what we're gonna do.
(SIGHS)
Or you wouldn't be having these hearings
in the first place.
Look, I understand your position.
You feel that you're making
a last-ditch stand for your faith,
and you've chosen this
as a hill that you're willing to die on.
Our whole faith started because one man
chose a hill he was willing to die on.
Yes, but that was a long time ago
and now nobody really cares.
Let's face it, your God, your book,
they're in the way.
They're in the way of moral relativism.
They're in the way
of calling good evil and evil good.
What did you plan to accomplish here today?
To defend the rights of parents
to educate their children as they see fit.
And to make Congress promise
that they will never threaten
those rights again.
-Yes.
-Sir, that is not gonna happen.
In a few minutes,
we're gonna go back in there,
we're gonna take a quick straw vote,
which is gonna find in favor
of the experts' recommendations.
Experts.
And then we're gonna push this through
just like we planned.
-Just like that?
-Just like that.
I'd be careful about going to war
against God's church.
Scripture promises the gates of hell
will not prevail against it.
This is not hell, Mr. Hill.
This is Washington.
Close enough.
For 2,000 years,
men have tried to get rid of Christianity.
Diocletian, Napoleon, Stalin, Mao Zedong.
What makes you think that you
can accomplish what they couldn't?
They didn't have an 83% approval rating.
BENSON: Daryl.
I really thought the Lord
would intervene on our behalf.
Before you say anything else,
I wanna show you all something.
Follow me.
You want to talk?
Let's talk!
Huh?
Did you say something?
I didn't hear you.
They say you're a man.
Then come down and face me like one.
You're more than a man, no?
You see all.
You know all.
Then tell me, Son of God,
why did you take Ayisha from me?
She's my daughter.
Are you punishing her?
Did she displease you?
Or are you punishing me?
I beg of you...
if you must have blood, take mine instead.
(WHIMPERING) Let Ayisha live.
I'll do anything.
Anything.
(GROANS)
(FLOORBOARD CREAKS)
Everybody knows her big sister,
Lady Liberty,
who stands in New York Harbor.
But this one?
She's my girl.
She's a replica.
Do you know her story?
The bronze was cast in 1861
outside of Washington.
Her name is Freedom.
And in one of those ironies
that God seems to delight in,
Philip Reid, the foundry foreman
in charge of casting her, was a slave.
A gifted artisan,
but a slave nonetheless.
But by the time the Capitol dome
was ready to receive her in 1863,
the Emancipation Proclamation
was in full effect.
Meaning that Philip Reid
most likely stood outside of this building
and watched her go aloft as a free man.
And all the hands
that strained at the hoisting ropes
all belonged to former slaves.
In my mind,
any country that can do that
is worth fighting for.
So that is exactly what we need to do...
keep fighting.
You at home and me right here.
They're gonna be taking the vote soon.
Um, I need to get back in
and prepare my closing statements.
They only gave me five minutes,
but I'll take it.
-Thank you.
My pleasure.
You all did wonderful.
Thanks, Martin.
Kind of felt
like the fight was rigged though.
Founding Fathers didn't account
for the likes of Chairman Benson.
Governor Morris was a Founding Father,
and he wrote,
"Religion is the only solid basis
of good morals.
"Therefore, education should teach
the precepts of religion
"and the duties of man towards God."
DAVID: Those days are past.
Mr. Morris didn't stand the test of time.
But he did.
Maybe this other thing he wrote
will be more familiar to you...
"We the people of the United States,
in order to form a more perfect union--"
"Establish justice."
"Ensure domestic tranquility."
"Provide for the common defense
and promote general welfare."
"And secure the blessings of liberty."
Liberty.
"Do ordain and establish
this Constitution."
"For the United States of America."
I'm sorry. I saw you all inside.
-I--
-ATTENDEE: We're the other 75%.
Three-quarters of parents who homeschool
for other than
primarily religious reasons.
Three-quarters? I mean, I thought that--
That's what most people think,
that at all homeschoolers
are conservative Christians.
That's not true.
Robert Williams from NBHE.
Nice to meet you.
We homeschool
because most of the schools in my area
are chronically underfunded.
(CHUCKLES) Not to mention
institutionalized racism.
-Mm-hmm.
-My son has special needs.
Public schools just aren't equipped.
Medical freedom.
I want to be able to choose
which immunizations my children receive.
Bullying, violence, school shootings.
There are many reasons.
Low student-to-teacher ratio.
Parents can choose the pace
and approach of the classroom.
Yeah, we have time for community service,
volunteering and entrepreneurship.
Not to mention the arts, outdoor play
and real experiments.
-(ALL CHUCKLE)
-First things public schools cut
to save money.
-Yeah.
-Our reasons might be different,
but we all want the same thing.
As long as government overreach
goes unchecked, liberty is threatened.
All of ours.
We can't stop.
We're stronger together.
I am "We the people."
We all are.
I can't believe how I missed this.
Wait, where you going?
We got a plane to catch.
I'll be back in five minutes.
JACKSON: My daddy used to fly airplanes.
He wore the same as you.
He's in heaven now.
I see.
You must miss him terribly.
If he could be with you, he would.
This I know.
How do you know?
Because everyfather
will always choose his child over...
I would go to heaven
so Daddy could come back for Mommy.
No, child.
You mustn't say such a thing.
That is an evil and pointless wish.
But Mommy's always so sad.
That's because she's forgotten
that our lives...
belong to God.
We must trust that God knows best.
Do you really think
your mom would be less sad without you?
She loves you.
She needs you.
MEREDITH: Jackson?
Time to go home. Almost your bedtime.
BENSON: You feel that you're making
a last-ditch stand to protect your faith.
Don't you get it?
We've already decided what we're gonna do.
"Laus Deo," it means praise be to God.
America is a country so blessed
with prosperity.
Religion has been removed from our schools.
MARTIN: "We the people
of the United States."
REBECCA: "And secure
the blessings of liberty."
-ATTENDEE 2: We're stronger together.
-ATTENDEE 3: I am "We the people."
ROBERT: We all are.
SMITH: "Don't worry
about what you will say.
"At the time,
you will be given what to say."
DAVID: "For it will not be you speaking,
"but the Spirit of your Father
speaking through you."
Mr. Chairman, I would like to yield
my time to the witness...
Reverend David Hill.
That's fine,
but I remind the witness
he's limited to five minutes.
(CLEARS THROAT)
(SIGHS)
(MONITOR BEEPING)
DAVID: Thank you, Congressman Smith,
Mr. Chairman,
for allowing me these last five minutes.
You ever been on one
of those sightseeing tours
they have here in Washington?
You know the kind where they take you
to see all the monuments?
Yes, I believe most of us have visited
the city's major attractions.
Baba.
DAVID: Maybe you ought to think
about going again,
cause those... how did you put that?
Um, attractions are here for a reason,
and I almost missed it.
I don't know how, because
you can't throw a rock in this city
without hitting a statue
or a monument of some kind.
I mean, every street,
every building in this city,
all the marble and the granite,
the brick and the stone,
they're trying to tell us something.
They're saying, "Don't forget about us.
"Don't forget about
the battles that we fought
"and the price that we paid for freedom.
"Don't let our sacrifice be in vain."
You wanna hear something interesting,
Mr. Chairman?
I have three friends
that have a pretty good understanding
of what's at stake here today,
and the funny thing is,
is they're not even from America.
They're from faraway places
like China, Iran, Africa.
But they get it.
They know what's at stake here.
And maybe in order to understand how
precious and fragile freedom really is,
maybe...
maybe you have to lose it.
But you already know that.
I mean all of this,
it's just a distraction.
And I made it easy for you, didn't I?
I bet your face just lit up
when you realized that there was a pastor
on the witness list.
You knew that if you challenged scriptures,
I would rise to defend them.
It's kind of in my job description.
You figured you'd run out the clock
while we debated how women
wore their hair 2,000 years ago,
all in hopes that no one would realize
that it's really their freedoms
that are on the line.
Not at all, sir.
The issue here today is homeschooling.
I wish it was, Mr. Chairman.
I truly do.
No, today...
Today was about turning
neighbor against neighbor.
That's part of your plan, isn't it?
Keep us all divided.
So bit by bit, we don't realize
you're chipping away
at our freedoms and liberties.
You got us all talking about how Noah
got all the animals on the ark.
Meanwhile, you're crafting legislation
that will allow the government
to barge into our homes.
Because it's all about power for you.
And the only way that
you can get more power
is by taking it from someone else.
And that would be all well and good
if it wasn't for that pesky thing
called the Constitution that keeps
getting in your way.
Now you hold on a second.
No, I'm done talking to you!
I'm talking to the people who elected you.
Because as inconvenient as it is, sir,
this is where your power comes from!
-Order!
-You see those statues
and those monuments out there?
They say, "You work for us!"
You are out of order, Mr. Hill.
A government of the people,
by the people, for the people.
Order! You are out of order, Mr. Hill.
Order!
Bailiff.
So stay out of our homes and churches,
and, yes, stay out
of our children's education.
Because what you call teaching,
Mr. Chairman,
is really social engineering.
You are out of order, Mr. Hill!
History is being rewritten.
Biology is redefined
and right and wrong are erased.
Our children don't belong to the government
and neither does our country.
America belongs to its citizens,
to each and all.
From the farmers in Texas to
the window cleaners in New York,
to the cabinet makers in Maine
and the teachers in Oklahoma,
to every man, woman and child,
it belongs to the people!
We the people.
RONALD REAGAN:
Freedom is a fragile thing.
It must be fought for and defended
constantly by each generation.
("GOD'S NOT DEAD
(LIKE A LION)" PLAYING)
(CHATTERING)
(SONG CONTINUES PLAYING)
(SONG ENDS)